I am Ivan Franko. born in 1856 in Lviv
Oblast, Ukraine. I am a Ukrainian poet,
writer, social and literary critic, journalist,
interpreter, economist, political activist,
doctor of philosophy, ethnographer, and
the author of the first detective novels
and modern poetry in the Ukrainian language.
As a child, I was baptized as Ivan by Father
Yosyp Levytsky, known as a poet and the author
of the first Galician-Ruthenian Hramatyka.
At home, however, I was called Myron because
of a local superstitious belief that naming a
person by a different name will dodge a death. My
family in Nahuyevychi was considered "well-to-do",
with their own servants and 24
hectares of its own property.
I studied classical philosophy at Lviv University.
That’s where I began my literary career and met
Mykhailo Drahomanov who was a great national
thinker at Lviv University. This made a huge
impression on me and established a long political
and literary association. My writings and
associations led to my arrest in 1877. However,
the nine months in prison did not discourage my
political writing or activities. In prison,
I wrote the Smorhon Academy. After release,
I studied the works of Karl Marx and Friedrich
Engels, contributed articles to the Labor Polish
newspaper, and helped organize workers' groups
in Lviv. I was arrested numerous times in the
following years. At odds with the administration,
I was expelled from Lviv University,
an institution that would be renamed the Ivan
Franko National University of Lviv after my death.
I was a political radical, and a founder of
the socialist and nationalist movement in
western Ukraine. In addition to my own
literary work, I also translated many
international works of such renowned figures
as William Shakespeare, Lord Byron, von Goethe,
and Friedrich Schiller into Ukrainian. Along with
Taras Shevchenko, I had a tremendous impact on
modern literary and political thought in Ukraine.
My life spun over my love for my nation and its
people’s long history of sacrifices and
fights for their freedom and prosperity.
I died in 1916 surrounded by many
people who believed in my nation’s love.